So we've talked about HTML.
Now, we're gonna get into CSS,
and if I'm honest,
this is one of the most frustrating
parts of web components.
So I like to get the bad stuff out of the
way first or early on, because I do think
if you've I find out about this later
in your experience with web components,
it can leave a sour taste,
where you feel like they're broken.
But what it really is, and
I don't mean not to be condescending, but
what it really is, is it's new and
you did not know that, and that is fine.
We are going to learn and
figure out what makes this different.
And what is different about this
is it involves something called
piercing the Shadow DOM.
And this is simultaneously the dumbest and
coolest phrase we have in web development.
So we have to just roll with it,
[LAUGH] we have to embrace it.
We're going to learn how
to pierce the Shadow DOM.
And if you remember kind of earlier,
we had that component, right?
Our custom alert,
we put in some text or Light DOM,
and then the web component,
the encapsulation creates that
shadow boundary around
the components HTML that it injects.
That boundary, it is a boundary,
things can go through and
things cannot go through,
just like we wanna protect that egg,
we want that egg to not leak out or
leak in.
So I'm gonna do the thing
where you just write styles,
you chuck styles at the wall and
see what sticks, okay?
This is the tried and
true development practice of just trying
stuff until it works or doesn't work.
So we're gonna start
styling from the outside.
So we're outside the egg and we're gonna
try to style stuff inside the egg, okay?
Let's just see what happens.
tl;dr, if you didn't write it,
you can't style it, okay?
This is just the rule of thumb, if you
didn't write it, you can't stop style it.
So styling Light DOM, right?
So can we style the Light DOM we wrote?
In here in my example element, I have
a button, and it is my Light DOM button,
and the example element is going to
inject a Shadow DOM button as well.
So you'll see I'm saying all buttons,
background pink, please,
right, turn the button pink, and
that is our test to see if it worked.
And then you can see here
this is a bunch of code,
but this is our Shadow DOM button,
and then our light DOM button should
show up in that slot above it, right?
And the result is, drumroll please,
sound effects team, thank you.
And ta-da, so we can style the light DOM,
that's our HTML, that's our CSS,
we can style that.
I wrote it, I can style it,
fair enough, right?
But would we go about styling
that Shadow DOM button?
I think it's if we wanna style
it from the outside, right?
So I think it's really,
the next intuitive thing my brain
does as a CSS person is,
I just say I'll just be very specific.
I'm gonna say example-element,
button background, pink.
I'm laser focused, I'm going to
target that button-element inside
the Shadow DOM as best we can, right?
So buttons, background on pink.
I should probably make that orange or
something, but whatever,
we want to turn this example-element
button pink, right, same JavaScript.
And the result is, [SOUND] It didn't work.
That's because we didn't write it, right,
we didn't write the Shadow DOM button.
This is confusing, and
actually that's the big
frustrated graphic from earlier for me.
I am not used to this, as a CSS person,
I'm used to full control, right?
I can style anything on the page
with the right selector.
I can laser focus and change and
manipulate anything I want,
the style of anything I want.
I should have that ability,
but suddenly I don't.
So it's almost like an emotional problem.
It feels like a loss of control, like no,
I was in control of the page and
now I'm not.
This is broken, the problem is this thing,
the problem is not me.
It's the kids that are wrong, it's not me.
But yeah, we have a question.
>> So why is that, is it because
of the way the Shadow DOM works?
It just won't let you, it doesn't care
that you've put CSS on the element.
>> Right, correct,
the way the Shadow DOM and
boundary is sort of, I guess specked out,
is that if there's encapsulation style,
encapsulation.
I think there's technical reasons,
because if you were able to deep style it,
should that only go one level?
What if you had buttons within buttons,
or whatever, elements within elements?
How far down that tree should that go?
So I think you have logic problems for,
does that just apply forever,
Oo does it not?
But me as a developer, I would like
a tool, and there's actually in
the Web Components Community group,
I think there's an idea of,
you remember how we had open and
closed Shadow DOM, right?
Open means we can access
the Shadow DOM from the outside, and
closed meaning you can't.
I think there's this idea growing of open
styleable child Dom in the original spec,
and I'd be actually really amazed
if it still worked in Chrome.
[LAUGH] but there was this roll off,
there we go.
There's this deep selector,
which was kind of like,
go deep into this component and
style this selector.
They didn't make the final version,
I don't think obviously here.
But there was just a kinda
talk original concept, but
I think it got shot down from
an isolation standpoint.
So the idea is I think just,
and you could see this too.
You have a website, and a really cool ad
campaign.js is also put on your website.
And they are just going for
it on their style, and
all of a sudden, your buttons
turn pink on your whole web app.
That could be a problem too, like so
I think the idea too is nothing.
The styles in the web
component don't shoot out, but
then the styles don't shoot in.
So it's just a hypothetical
argument there.
But I think we're figuring out what,
again,
it's just sort of experimenting with
the limitations, but it was talked about,
it's being talked about, but
it's not something you can do, so.
So does that help everybody?
Any more questions?
We got two more.
This is the hard part, so I keep asking.
>> Could you go back a few slides,
just wanted to distinguish the regular,
the light DOM, and the, so here
>> Yeah.
>> If you have that Shadow DOM boundary,
that's dynamically inserted in there,
right, and that's the difference?
>> Yeah, correct.
>> Okay.
>> And so you can actually,
like if we go, let me go to the CodePen.
We'll go here and
we can do some web inspecting.
Are you ready?
[SOUND] it looks actually
a lot like my drawing.
We have our example element, and
then here's our Light DOM button, right?
And then we have the shadow root, and
that's the shadow boundary that when you
say attack shadow, it's creating this.
And inside there, I put that slot
element and then our Shadow DOM button,
and the slot element is
revealing the Light DOM button.
It's confusing, again, cuz it's new, but
you can actually click on here and
figure out what it's talking about.
So that's kinda helpful too.
So yes, question.
>> I was just wondering if a Shadow DOM
is been both open and styleable,
what would the benefits be over
just not using a Shadow DOM?
>> Okay,
if the Shadow DOM was open styleable,
what would be the benefit of
using it over just not using it?
Yeah, very little, [LAUGH] you would still
have a degree of script-like containment,
and you could still have
your custom element.
You could still have Shadow Dom,
and so the API interface,
what the people you work with
author is very succinct.
And you can put that in your
server render template.
But yeah, there might not be like, no for
me, there's still gigantic benefits.
Because when I want to
distribute the design system,
I wanna use our tabs and
our accordance, and
then give them sort of a cool
way to [LAUGH] I guess,
author that in an intuitive way and
sort of limit mistakes.
You and your company might have
a tight integration with your CMS,
where you're like,
we only offered these three variants
of the cool button or something.
And so cool button only
comes in three flavors and
they have to choose one in the CMS or
something like that.
So that's maybe a situation where
you'd wanna use web components still.
But yeah though,
it sort of blurs the line.
So I think there's if like,
you offer open styleable,
they'll use a bit of their islandness.
But I think from an authoring perspective,
there's just times where you're like,
I just wanna style this,
let me make the buttons pink,
becaus I could leave work that day, so.